Okay, let's go to the next talk right now is John West and the talk is introduction
to bliss labs and bliss OS.
Thank you John, the stage is yours.
Thank you.
I represent bliss labs.
Thank you very much.
I represent bliss labs and bliss OS.
So what bliss labs is, is we're a volunteer based 501C3 non-profit organization that helps
open source projects thrive, mostly Android based, but we also do Linux projects as well.
Our goal is to create and maintain various open source operating systems and other software
that helps extend the life of devices in order to help with the world's e-waste problems.
Bliss labs also maintains bliss OS and other open source software.
We're not just a bunch of projects, we're a very mature open source org with a proper
organizational structure.
We work to mentor and teach future open source developers in all aspects.
We form alliances with other projects that share in our visions.
We develop tools to help minimize the complex development process of Android and Linux and
aid in learning.
And we also act as a global fiscal host for open source projects that are not able to
monetize in their current region.
So this allows for a much larger opportunity to work with others globally and increase
their user base.
Our region is global, so we have members of bliss labs all over the world.
Age group ranges from 13 to 60.
Students, professionals, retirees, the whole nine yards.
Women, men were LGBT friendly, different able in key positions like CFO, CPO, CTO.
For education, we don't have any requirements really.
You can be a middle school student or you could have a PhD in the professor.
Our estimated download count from the year we started in 2014 is now up to over 6 million.
That's across the entire suite of bliss labs projects.
And speaking of the projects, how many of you recognize any of these logos?
Anybody?
Okay.
To go over some of these, we have BlissOS, which is a unified Android experience irrespective
of hardware.
We use Android X86 as the base OS, works on Intel and AMD X8664 version 2 devices and
greater.
We also run RayDroid, Android integration with Linux.
It's a lightweight containerized base project.
We run Android Linux hybrid, which is a cross of Linux and Android running on bare metal
hardware.
We maintain SmartDoc, which is a desktop UX for Android.
We maintain XTmapper, which is an on-screen keymapper for Android as well.
We maintain a community called Supreme Gamers, which is centered on Android X86 development.
We also maintain BoringDroid, which is a complete open source desktop UI solution for AOSP.
We're adding Bliss base to the mix now, which is a production ready example of Android on
X86 based on Bliss, but geared towards, we'll say, commercial applications.
Then we maintain Android Generic Project, which is an easy button for Android X86 and
BlissOS builds.
We also maintain BlissROM, which is Android for Android devices.
Our matured process model includes building, testing, releasing, and documentation for
both dev and users, and then post-release support.
Popular open source projects having links with our projects.
BlendOS is one.
They use our RayDroid project.
Ubuntu Web also uses our RayDroid project.
Ubuntu Touch is well.
PrimeOS, which uses Android Generic Project to generate their images.
Then Android X86, we fully support that project by supplying team resources, build servers,
development, et cetera.
What we do to support sub-projects is we attend conferences like this.
We supply hardware for testing, hardware for development, hardware for build and web
servers, and communication servers like Slack, Discord, GC, Telegram, Matrix, et cetera.
Then we provide software services like storage, source, forging, GDrive, or development services
like GitLab, GitHub, Access to Jira, Confluence, Trello, and then servers for updates, OTA,
GitHub, and CICL.
Which brings me to the next part of what we're doing here, is we're introducing BlissOS,
which is an Android on X86 hardware.
It's Android for your PC.
Funny thing is, my Linux PC took a crap on traveling out here.
I actually had to put this whole thing together on Android X86, so on BlissOS.
That's what we're seeing this whole thing run today from.
It's based on mainline Linux, so using Android X86 patches on top of the kernel in order
to provide support for Android subsystem.
We have features of desktop UI, changes for X86 hardware, custom house, et cetera.
Generic builds, so one ISO runs everything.
We have tons of customization options included.
Low resources based subsystem, so it's a very low overhead system to run Android on
X86 hardware.
A lot like Edge Linux would be.
Then we have added Linux tools integrated with Android, like Turmux, networking tools.
We bring in DRM hardware composer, Greylock, Mesa, all from mainline Linux.
Some of the diverse use cases of BlissOS and the likes are kiosks, mobile devices, PCs,
gaming devices like the Steam Deck, automotive displays, POS and customer facing displays,
new displays, ad displays, TV and large screen applications, IoT and industrial IoT, industrial
displays, gaming and component displays.
BlissOS is open source.
It's based on Apache version 2, GPL version 2 and GPL version 3.
If you're using BlissOS, as is, it's free and open source to use anywhere.
If you're using BlissOS, using a modified source, still comes as open source as long
as you release the source code.
It's open for anybody to use in their project.
Coming to BlissLabs is not a requirement as long as you release that source code.
Then a small per device or perpetual licensing cost for those that are using a modified source
and do not wish to release that source code.
Some of our milestone achievements as of lately are EIDU.
We've gotten into a pilot program for Kenya using their low end hardware with our operating
system.
Companies have been using it in products lately.
We've been shortlisted by Swarchforge multiple times as a featured project.
We've been adding more and more devices every year.
You can find demo videos on our website as of this week.
You can also download an ISO for Android 11, 12, 13, and as of today, Android 14, which
is our announcement today.
We will be making BlissOS version 17 available within the next couple of days for everybody
to test and download.
Swarchforge is already on GitHub.
The source is already on GitHub.
Initial features are ported from Android 13 to 14, including desktop UI, dual ethernet,
multi-display, et cetera.
What you can expect from us in the near future are more device groups will be supporting
Raspberry Pi, RISC 5, et cetera.
More leaning towards the Linux hybrid side of things, where we'll have a larger Linux
subsystem running Android on top.
We'll be more independent and a complete fossil ecosystem, so we'll be providing tools
for companies and individuals to create their own cutoff app stores, pretty much.
Then we're going to be supplying some Edge IoT and IIoT examples as well in the code.
Our process, we're going to be documenting even for newbies, so we're going to continue
on that, dumbing it down for everybody.
And automated installation support, so we're working on a couple new installers, graphical
installers as well as text mode installers for Linux.
And then we're going to fine tune our AI-enabled support bots that we use to help users answer
the questions so we don't have to.
Community engagement includes contests, Easter eggs we put into the operating system.
We have goodies we often do giveaways, stickers, t-shirts, et cetera, get points, and then
Blisify videos in the link on our website.
Opportunities available through Blis Labs and BlisOS are internships, mentorships, open
roles paid soon.
We'll be web development, server maintenance, project management, HR, finance, and developers.
Contributors can get mileage for the next move in their career or can be absorbed by
BlisOS, BlisLabs for commercial opportunities.
We have a very easy streamlined way of joining.
We cut out most of the crap, no ego, but we are healthy and drama free.
We are full democracy on team, so we have a flat structure, nobody's head of anything,
nobody's overseer, nobody's the god of Blis.
And that brings us to where you can find us online.
So if you could scan the QR code, that'll take you to our link tree and that has all
the links available for you to contact us and move forward in the future.
If you have any questions, I will be available outside the room and I have my device and
a couple other screens so I could demo if you guys are interested.
Thank you very much.